hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions in a previous
video I presented this problem the
following shape has three right angles
its side lengths are four three four and
five the question was to solve for the
length of the last side labeled X now
many people came up with the correct
answer but they used an incorrect proof
this is a channel about learning so we
actually want to show why the incorrect
proof is not valid and to do that we're
going to demonstrate it by varying the
problem just a little bit imagine that
this side length is equal to three now
what is the length of X I think Michael
Timothy for suggesting this variation
pause the video if you'd like to give it
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
so first let's go over the incorrect way
to solve this problem many people
approached it as follows imagine
connecting this hypotenuse this is a
right triangle with legs of three and
four so its hypotenuse will be five we
then draw this vertical distance and it
must be equal to three that means we
have another three four five right
triangle we then transfer this length of
five and so the total length of this
side will be five plus four which is
equal to nine so what's wrong with this
method well the problem is that this
distance here is not actually three and
I'm going to show you why when we draw
this diagram to scale so let's fix some
of these lengths so that it's actually
accurate so when you draw this vertical
length at a distance of three you'll see
it actually doesn't connect to that
corner point between four and five so
you can't use that method of three four
five right triangles the method that I
suggested is to consider just this shape
and looking at the distance from end to
end how can we solve for that
well let's rotate this shape just to
make it a little bit easier well join
the horizontal distances and then I'll
put the vertical distance on the left we
now have a right triangle where one leg
is four and the other leg is eight so we
can solve for the hypotenuse as the
square root of 4 squared plus eight
squared and that'll be equal to the
square root of 80 we can then go back to
our original diagram the distance from
end to end will be the square root of 80
if we put this back into our original
shape we now have a right triangle where
one leg is three and its hypotenuse is
the square root of 80 we then have x
squared is equal to the square root of
80 squared minus three squared
thus x squared is equal to 71 this means
X is equal to the square root of 71 and
that's the correct answer I hope this
video illustrating why the other method
was not a correct way to solve this
problem and I hope
learned this correct way to solve the
problem sometimes geometry problems are
trickier than they look thanks for
watching and for making minor decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]
you